Hello everyone and welcome to the lecture for implementation of selection's sort.
So let's get a brief overview again of what selection sort is the selection sort.
Improves on the bubble sort by making only one exchange for every pass through the list in order to
do this for the selection.
So it's going to do is look for the largest value as it makes a pass and after completing the pass placing
it in its proper location as if a bubble sort after the first pass the large item is in the correct
place after the second pass.
The next largest is in that place.
So this process continues and requires and minus one passes to sort and items since that final item
is actually going to be in place after you do the end minus one passes.
So let's go ahead and see how we can implement this.
Our own selection sort function in python you have resources for review in The Notebook as well as the
code itself.
So let's go ahead and check it out.
So I jumped to a new notebook.
I'm going to say start off my function and say the earth selection underscores sorts with passen summer
rain.
In this case it's going to be a python list.
A R.
So for every slot in the array remember we're talking about fill slots and slots in the theory lecture
.
I'm going to say fill slots in range and we're going to do the exact same thing we did for the bubble
sort.
That's for selecting that range.
So it looks something like this.
And it basically helps you index in a reverse manner.
And remember this selection sort.
Now we're keeping track of the math.
So what I'm going to do is make a variable called position of Max
and I get a set at equal to zero so that it's at the first index essentially.
And then I'm going to say for every set of 0 to that fill slot plus 1.
So in this case 4 in I'll say location in range one to fill slots plus one.
And the reason we're starting at one here is because we already have the position of Max at zero.
So let's go in and set the maximums location.
So when I say if at that location of the array if it's greater than at the position of Max
go ahead and basically reset that position of max 2 position of Max is equal to location.
OK.
And then for the switching We were actually going to do is do it in relation to this for loop.
So I'm going to say 10 equals fill slots so this is really similar to what we're doing in the bubble
sort.
And then said fill slots
equal to position of Max at the index.
And then I to say array at the position of Max equals temp.
So this is essentially just a switch here.
OK let's go ahead and run this and make sure it all works out.
So it's good to make an array.
Just make a random rail say five eighths three 10 and one.
So clearly it's not sorted and we're going to do is call selection's sorts on that Ira.
Go ahead and show the array and notice that I have to ask for this show here because I don't have a
return statement in the sexual function.
So let's go ahead and see it.
All right great.
So sorted out so we know our function is working.
Let's go ahead and walk through it one more time.
So what I'm saying is for every fill slot in range length with the array minus one in a negative step
fashion.
So let's go in make sure we understand this.
So I mean we could show that one more time.
So here we have an array of five elements.
So what this range does as far as indexing is go for three to one essentially backwards through that
array.
Right.
So then I'm saying position of Max equals zero.
And then for the location index in range from 1 to 2 already considering position of Mexico zero all
the way to that fill slot plus 1.
So for instance the first one is going to be up to 1 to 5.
I'll say if at that location that element of the array is greater than at the position of the max reset
the position of Max location.
Once that's done if that we have that is true we'll go ahead and start doing the switch.
So say a temporary variable is equal to that the fill slot location than fill slot location element
equals the element at the position of Max.
And then I reset the position of max index elements to the temporary elements.
OK.
So that's all there is to it.
You can go ahead and check up the note book for explanations and resources for explanations.
There's the Wikipedia link and visualizing the algorithm explanations as well some pseudo code.
Singlehood Cheka also the real code that we just went over as well as some comments there.
And that's basically it.
OK thanks everyone and I will see you at the next lecture